(upbeat music)
Alright, let's talk about this keyword.
We're gonna go into this keyword in this video
as well as in the next one,
which is talking about prototype and prototypal inheritance.
So this keyword in JavaScript refers to the instance
of an object that a function is bound.
So what, what does that even mean?
Well, so far, I've been telling
you that this keyword equals the thing
to the left of the dot when you're calling a method.
So if we let's go ahead and make two buttons,
we have button class is of one will say button one
and then we have button two at the class of two.
If I go down here and I select both of those const
button one is equal to document dot query selector.
Now query selector I just say dot one
and then button two has a class of two.
And we make a function that says, tell me about the button.
And we'll just console log this keyword inside of it.
Then what we can do is we can say
button one dot add event listener,
we're gonna listen for a click.
And when that happens,
we are going to run tell me about the button function.
Same thing for button two.
Now, when I go and click on these,
this keyword is going to be equal
to the button that was clicked.
Now we can call that in instance,
why because button one and button two are simply instances
of the mama button that is in the browser.
Whenever you make a new button, whether you make it via HTML
and it gets rendered to the dom,
or whether you use document dot create element
that will create a new button that is an instance
of the HTML button that is in the browser.
So this keyword in our case,
equals the thing that is to the left of the dot.
So a method that call that called was add event listener
and the thing to the left
of it was the button one or button two.
Now you will also hear this being called as this function
is bound to this button meaning
that when something is bound to something,
it means that this keyword is going to be equal
to whatever it was bound to.
Now we're able to change that with the dot bind method.
But we'll go into that in a future video.
Don't worry all that much about that so far.
So one other thing you need to know about this keyword
is that this keyword is always scoped to a function.
And if you use an arrow function, like we'll convert
this to an arrow function const tell me about the button
is equal to an arrow function.
Then watch what happens to this when I refresh it.
Window okay, so the thing about an arrow function
is that this keyword does not change
when you use an arrow function.
And this keyword will be equal
to whatever this key word was at a higher level function.
And if there is no higher function that is wrapped around
this, then this keyword will just be equal to the window.
So one sort of use case for that is,
if we have let's bring it back to a regular function,
make sure that still works good.
And I wanna say like after one second,
I want to update the text of the button
that says good job or something like that.
We can say set timeout.
And that takes two things.
It takes how long and this that's actually
second argument, the first argument
is a callback function.
Right, and now if I want to be able to update the text
of that, I would have to say this dot text content
is equal to you clicked me.
Okay, after refresh, one second later,
nothing really happened.
Huh, okay, well let's console log this inside of it, okay.
And one second later, we get window what?
So if I log this, maybe we can do this console log
outside and also log inside.
Outside, it's equal to the button,
but inside it's equal to the window.
And that is because every time you create a new function,
it will then change what the value of this is equal to.
And if you need to be able to access
this keyword inside of this function,
then you'd have to save it.
(murmuring) this is previously we used to do this,
we used to say const, that equals this.
And then we go down here and say that.
And then after a second,
it says, you clicked me.
And then that one updates,
whoever, we don't need to do that anymore,
let me bring that back.
Because what happens is that you can change
this to an arrow function.
And this keyword will know not to change,
it will just inherit whatever was at the higher level.
In our case, since this is just an arrow function,
it will grab whatever this is equal to in that function.
So now click it, and it still works exactly
the same way as we had hoped.
So that's kind of like a little gotcha
about arrow functions that's sort
of the main difference there quite honestly
this doesn't happen to me all that often anymore
because I much rather use the event dot current target
and event dot target like we've been using over
there are many use cases where that will still
will come and bite you.
So just so you know about that.
Now, that's what we know about this keyword so far.
Let's comment that out here.
The other thing that we need to know about this keyword
is that it refers to the instance
of the thing that was made.
So if we go up to this pizza here,
and console log this, whenever the pizza is made,
we're going to be getting that was online 25 and we go,
you see that we get access to the pizza that was created.
Now we can do things like store information about the pizza
that is being made inside of that pizza,
right because when you make a pizza,
you need to store information about it like,
what are the toppings?
Who is it for?
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm gonna modify this pizza.
This is called a constructor,
the function that makes an object is called a constructor.
And that is going to take in array of toppings,
I'm gonna default that to an empty array,
and then also is going to take in a customer's name.
Then inside of here, we just say
this dot toppings is equal to toppings.
So, say, save the toppings that were passed
in to this instance of pizza.
And then we'll do the same thing with the customer say
this dot customer is equal to customer.
And you could do other things like uppercase or lowercase
or generate the name or generate an ID
for that customer inside of it.
Let's actually do that we'll say
this dot ID is equal to Irish
has this awesome little blog post anytime I need
like a random ID, it's not guaranteed to be unique.
But it's good enough for me in most use cases.
And what this does is it gives you just a random hex code
every single time that you run it.
Sometimes I'll use that if I need to grab a random ID.
So I'll take the pound off, I don't need that.
And every single time that pizza is made,
it will grab a new random ID.
Now when I refresh it, you'll see this is my pizza
has a bunch of information about that pizza,
which is the toppings the customer and the ID,
Oh, and they are empty and undefined
because we haven't passed them in.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So when you create a pizza
we want what do we want on our
pepperoni pizza, just pepperoni.
And who's the owner of this pepperoni pizza was bos.
Now I'm going to make, I'm gonna get rid
of these console logs right here.
I'm going to make another pizza here.
So duplicate it and we'll call that Canadian pizza.
And yes, Canadians are responsible for pineapple and pizza.
No, I'm not going to do that to you today
on a Canadian pizza is pepperoni, mushrooms, and onion.
And that will go to my wife.
Now I've got two pizzas, let's go take a look at them.
Refresh, so I clear all this out,
will say the pepperoni pizza and the Canadian pizza.
Now look at it, we open it up.
There's a pizza, it has all of the information
about that pizza stored inside of it,
who it's for and the idea of that pizza.
Same thing goes for each of the toppings.
So this keyword when you're creating an object
is used to store information about that instance
in this is a perfect example the pepperoni pizza
is an instance of pizza.
And it has its own unique ID that needs to stay
with that pizza, like the toppings who's it for in the ID.
Canadian pizza also is an instance of pizza
and it has internal information
that needs to stay with that pizza.
So that is what this is used for.
This is used for storing data
and actually functionality as well on each of the instances.
Now in the next video, we're gonna go into prototypal
methods that can be shared amongst all the pizzas
because they always do the exact same thing.
So see you in that one